---
layout: post
title: "Information (Technology) Overload"
date: 2026-04-30
---
<p>The first time I visited a public swimming pool, I nearly died. Feeling confident and stylish in my sunny yellow swimsuit, I eagerly followed my sister into the crystal blue chlorination. So excited was I that I was staring straight ahead, into the future, instead of down, at the drop-off into water deeper than my tiny body could stand up in. I went under, terrified and thrashing. My sister hauled me out and plopped me on the concrete like a dying smelt.</p>
<p>"Watch where you're going," she rolled her eyes, and then re-entered the pool, effortless as a dolphin. This formative experience was perhaps the genesis of my tendency to overprepare and, unfortunately, to become overwhelmed and discouraged by all there is to learn and fear about a new thing before I try it. As I begin my pivot from education into IT, I already feel myself falling into those patterns. To say that there is an overabundance of information about the field(s) is to make an absurd understatement. There are so many suggested entry points, recommended Starter Packs of skills and certifications that I get vertigo just thinking about how to begin. What's worth my time? What's going to help me land that ever-important first job (which won't actually be my first IT job, just my first in over 20 years)? What can I <i>afford</i>? My eyes are glassing over typing this!</p>
<p>Fortunately, I'm married to an impulsive man with ADHD and a passion for hobbies. His solution to overpreparation paralysis is to prepare as little as possible. I don't know if this is intentional, but it certainly is consistent. This year, he decided to pursue his vermicomposting dreams mid-grocery shop at Walmart. It was touch and go for a bit with those first worms, but enough survived to bring a new generation of slimy detritivores into the bin, and my husband improves his husbandry all the time. The lesson here is one from the sages, <i>The only way to begin is to <b>begin</b>.</i> Wasting time on selecting the best prep materials, the ideal set of certification exams, the perfect beginner setup will lead to frustration, stagnation and--worst of all--premature abandonment. In this sense, my chaotic husband is an inspiration. He always starts the thing. It doesn't always work out, but he always learns something from the experience, and novel experiences are rarely wholly regrettable. Except for durian. We both regret trying that and frequently recall the harrowing events of that New Year's Eve...</p>
<p>With my husband's example and the dim memory of my childhood bravado in mind, I built this Jekyll-based blog in-browser because I don't understand Git at <i>all</i>; I picked an exam to start with because it's the one every entry-level job in my area demands (A+, predictably) and I'm rummaging around to see what I have to work with in terms of starting a home lab. Because IT support is not my end goal*, I'm also starting in on a web dev project that's over my head because I know I like doing that sort of thing, and it sounds like a fun challenge, and I'm sure I'll learn a lot just by working on it. That project is honestly scarier than starting from zero on the support side because I have vaguely followed the dizzying advances in web Stuff and am dimly aware of how development and design have exploded and evolved in the years since I wandered away.</p>
<p>Here's to diving in, filling your lungs with water and flailing until you find your way to a new edge of the pool.</p>
<blockquote>* If it's not my goal, why do it? Because I'm not really sure what my goal is, and I know that support is a tried-and-true way to get over the experience barrier. Plus I like problem-solving and communication is my strongest soft skill, so why not?</blockquote>
